[DX-1047] Upgrade Guides (#4102)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/developer-support/upgrading-tyk/upgrade-prerequisites.md

---

> title: "Upgrade Pre-Requisites"

Reviewer: it's is read more as "Pre Upgrade Considerations" than "Upgrade Pre-Requisites" to me. What do you think

    - If following the Blue-Green upgrade strategy, has the green environment been configured and verified as production-ready?
    - If pursuing the Rolling upgrade strategy, do all Tyk components have a second instance?
- **What operating system is currently in use?**
    - Was Tyk deployed via a repository or a local package file .rpm (CentOS or RHEL) or .deb (Debian or Ubuntu)?
    - Is the targeted version available on [packagecloud.io/tyk](https://packagecloud.io/tyk) or the intended version?
- **Have backups been performed?**
    - Have databases been properly backed up?
    - Are the configuration files safely backed up?
    - Have you tested your backups?
    - Have you consulted our [comprehensive guide for backing up Tyk]({{< ref "frequently-asked-questions/how-to-backup-tyk" >}}) before starting the upgrade.
- **Are there any custom plugins?**
    - Do they need to be recompiled using the guide listed in the [table](#next-steps) below appropriate for your platform?

## Next Steps {#next-steps}

> Consult our [upgrade strategy]({{< ref "developer-support/upgrading-tyk/upgrade-strategy" >}}) guidelines to help you decide between a [Rolling]({{< ref "developer-support/upgrading-tyk/upgrade-strategy#rolling-upgrade" >}}) or [Blue-Green]({{< ref "developer-support/upgrading-tyk/upgrade-strategy#blue-green" >}}) upgrade.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review our [upgrade strategy guidelines]({{< ref "developer-support/upgrading-tyk/upgrade-strategy" >}}) to decide between a [Rolling]({{< ref "developer-support/upgrading-tyk/upgrade-strategy#rolling-upgrade" >}}) or [Blue-Green]({{< ref "developer-support/upgrading-tyk/upgrade-strategy#blue-green" >}}) upgrade.
```

Use the table below to follow the upgrade guide appropriate for your platform:

| Platform         | Guide             | Description |
| ---------------- | ---------------- | ----------- |

> | Tyk Cloud        | [Cloud SaaS]({{< ref "developer-support/upgrading-tyk/cloud/cloud-saas" >}}) | Guide for Tyk Cloud SaaS (Software As A Service) |

Reviewer: @dcs3spp Not sure I don't get this. Why we have only linux here? where's docker and k8s?
